and then the first realization of
streaming sets in
and that is this axiom if you're not
growing you're dying so let's see let's
see what's going on here
okay does this y'all can see this here
this uh streamer's being depressed
streamers pack watch depression
um anyway don't call this good game if
you see me right now
uh i was i was talking like i've talked
to a few streamers i talked to xqc
hassan mizzy
in my own feelings even cycuno
and i realized that every single
streamer will readjust how they feel
about how they're doing like very
quickly so if they're like 10k andy like
you know everyone was at one point and
then they jump to 20k andy they'll be
like oh that's really exciting it's cool
novel and then they will immediately
like within a week be like i am a 20k
andy anything below that is bad oh yeah
and then they'll be like if i just hit
30k i'll be happy it's called there's a
lot of aspects here one is called the
disease of more uh-huh you just need
more and more and more to fill the void
especially if you drop below some sort
of watermark it's arbitrary yeah it's
like it's it's really [ __ ] up
gambling's the same way i would know
what's funny is there's always a number
though that they'll be like if i hit
this i will be happy like if i can just
consistently get 30k viewers i'll be
happy and all of them the answer is no
like even xqc the biggest streamer on
the platform i remember during shitcon
he was like 110k like gta rp just
killing it then he would like drop down
a 60. you know he's streaming at like
midnight to like 7 a.m degenerate
schedule and then he was at chicago he's
like oh yeah i'm [ __ ] watch dude like
i got no content and it's like he's
mostly saying it in like an ironic way
but i think he like part of him like
sees the night he's not blind he sees
the [ __ ] numbers so they're all
depressed and all thinking about it are
you depressed
no because you know what i know this is
what i realized what i did i hit the
subathon [ __ ]
the largest penis on mount rushmore yeah
and then i pivoted what made the yard
made mogul merch and now all of my like
self happiness is in those projects yeah
you are you sort of invested not your
money well it's your money to an extent
but mostly your emotional uh
itself into different buckets what
percentage of your happiness is in the
yard you diversified the yard happiness
is it's like a solid like like 12.
okay that's pretty good
yeah i don't know i think pretty good i
think that you struggle to think
critically about your own hat see that's
what i'm saying right bro you started
talking about dude you started talking
and he instantly was playing drums i
know like it's like
so what i'm saying is that
right how is it now you're an ape oh a
little head action wow
[Music]
like tyler1 like the people who
literally show up to play a video game
they love like tens
shroud's probably happy because he just
shows up and just plays whatever i'm
gonna just pause this for a second
so i
i guess i was supposed to react to this
and sorry so sometimes instead of
reacting i suppose i just listen
[Laughter]
so let's just take a look at this too so
i saw that this was not the only so i
guess ludwig and co were talking about
you know all streamers being depressed
and there was this article i think
yesterday in the wall street journal
about twitch live streamers talking
about how playing games is hard work and
then like aching back stress and weight
gain or job hazards for video gamers
and others who perform online for hours
a day in front of an audience for the
most the money isn't even that good so
you don't have to do this performing
online
this is just the job hazards for gaming
you don't even have to be a streamer you
can still get aching back stress and
weight gain
but so i i wanted to share with you guys
like so here's what i kind of think
about this stuff right so the this this
guy was talking about kind of this um
the the hedonistic treadmill
or like the disease of more or whatever
so at this point at healthy gamer we've
worked with like hundreds of content
creators
and here's like basically what we've
learned okay so the first thing to
understand about like mental health and
content creators and like burnout and
stuff
i've done burnout work um at hospitals
i've done it at law firms i've done it
at investment banks private equity firms
i've done it at colleges
and so
the first thing to understand is that
there are some aspects of burnout that
are specific to a particular industry
and then there are some aspects of
burnout that are actually like common
right
so a big thing that's going on with
streamers nowadays is when they say like
oh we're all depressed
i think there's legitimacy that we'll
get to that in a second
but the first thing to understand is
that there are some aspects of burnout
that may be applicable to everyone
whether you're a college student or you
work at an investment bank or you're a
streamer
but one of the things that we really
have learned is that technology and the
situations that it creates including
streaming have a set of specific
challenges
that are common within that industry and
those tend to be a little bit different
from like standard kinds of burnout
so here's basically what happens with a
streamer okay you start out with like
you start streaming right and at the
beginning it's fun you've got like five
viewers you're doing it on the side it's
not like a part of your job or anything
like that you're gonna show up on chat
like three people show up y'all are
vibing they're having a good time you're
having a good time there's no
expectations about it right there's no i
like you're just doing it because it's
fun so that's like the beginning of the
streamer life cycle okay so here's the
streamer life cycle it starts out you're
small no expectations whatever then you
start growing
and then like maybe you start making a
little bit of money and that's like
super exciting at the beginning right
like this is happening it's a real thing
your your twitch chat is loving you your
stream is growing people are posting
about it you get a clip on lsf like yay
right so 100 viewers 200 viewers 300
viewers maybe you get rated by someone
you're up to like a thousand viewers
and then the first realization of
streaming sets in
and that is this axiom if you're not
growing you're dying so then your mind
starts to think okay i've got two
options like either i'm growing or i'm
dying right that's what happens on the
internet it's what happens in social
media it's like either people are
growing or they're dying and this
becomes a serious problem because once
you start creating content and like your
content does well this is the tricky
thing
why is it doing well
you don't know
right like you never really understand
it's not like you have you can do a
biopsy to twitch chat and and figure out
what's doing well and what isn't like
something about what you're doing is
kind of like organic and it's free and
it's fun and people seem to be liking it
and if you've got to be growing
otherwise you're dying so how do you
grow more you're not really sure because
you don't really understand what's
responsible for your growth in the first
place
and so faced with this kind of idea of
you're not if you're not growing you're
dying then what happens is you're like i
don't know how to consistently grow
right and this is where the first phase
of burnout
uh kind of happens which is like i can't
consistently grow i don't know what this
formula is but what i can control what
is within my control to affect growing
or dying is how much i stream
so if i farm
streaming right like if i just stream
for 10 hours a day 12 hours a day if i
do this if i do that if i just stream
more if i give more of myself to this
thing
then my chances of growing are greater
than my chances of dying that's the only
thing we can really figure out as
streamers is that i can increase the
amount of time i spend on something to
become more successful
so they start to give of themselves to
the stream right and in really drastic
situations you end up with cases like
ice poseidon where like you know he gave
everything he had to his stream and it
did not end well so you have to grow or
you're dying that's phase one so you
give of yourself and then you start to
burn out phase two is you're kind of
established you're like you're a
streamer now now there's a financial
incentive and like you're sort of like
you've quit your job you're making
enough money you've made it as a
streamer so this is like where the gravy
train is rolling in right you're making
some money you're paying your bills
people are vibing with you you roll out
your merch like everything's going great
and so you should be happy at that point
right no no no here's where the second
revelation of streaming comes in
the sand in your hourglass is running
out because no streamer lasts forever so
at the first phase you're growing or
dying but eventually all organisms come
to an end death is inevitable right it's
not you can't not gonna be like a 60
year old streamer because that's what
happens to streamers so then what
happens is streamers start to like think
like oh my god i better milk this before
i get small there's going to be an
inevitable
reduction in my viewer account
and so i've got to milk it for as long
as i can because i don't know if this is
going to be around a year from now i
don't know if everyone's going to leave
me a year from now there's a lot of
other things going into that but then
the sand and the hourglass starts
running out so then what you have to do
is like can you cut back on your stream
hours no no no
now that you've started to be successful
if you start to cut back people will
leave someone else will grow it's going
to be gg so you better make the money
while you can you better grow while you
can because who knows when there's going
to be someone who's funnier sexier more
intelligent more capable than you are
who starts streaming and then they're
going to take your viewers
so now you're trapped
right because this is an opportunity
that will run out by now because this
sale ends at the end of the month you
have three days if you order in the next
72 hours you will get an additional 20
off and then that opportunity will never
come back to you ever again and then
everything that you've invested in the
streaming because let's remember that
you kind of quit your job you dropped
out of school and all that kind of stuff
you don't have any option b so now like
the sand in the hourglass is running out
so you better you know go as hard as you
can for as long as you can before it's
too late
so now there's a fear there's an
uncertainty there's a paranoia that all
of your opportunity will be gone
then you enter the third phase of
streaming the third phase of burnout in
the stream or life cycle and that's when
like you've grown so big that suddenly
like you feel trapped i know it sounds
kind of weird but at some point you sort
of figure out what the internet wants
from you and when you started out
streaming it was like streaming for fun
right you did what you wanted to do and
the internet responded to it but then
over time what happens is like your
audience has certain expectations they
expect quality from you they expect
perfection from you they expect the same
formula because that's how you succeed
right
you don't have like a successful content
creator who is like cooking one day and
playing wow the next day and then like
you know talking about lecturing about
calculus the third day streamers have a
particular niche and generally speaking
the more that you support that niche the
more you grow but the more that you
support that niche and the more you grow
because of that niche the more trapped
you become
and so the third phase of burnout is
like you've got a million followers
and you have big streams but you can't
do what you feel like anymore because
everyone wants you to be a particular
thing
right and we see this with like
a lot of streamers where it's not just
streamers it even happens with
celebrities who get like typecast right
so like that's the current incarnation
of typecasting a celebrity it's like a
streamer gets trapped by the content
that they create and then they fall into
this problem where they can't really
like they don't want to do it anymore it
doesn't feel fun anymore it's not
organic it's forced but you can't stop
because people expect it from you and
like you just gotta keep going so that's
the third stage of burnout so this is
like burn the burnout life cycle for
streamers that we have discovered after
you know working with hundreds of of
streamers we've discovered that there's
actually like a specific and common
thing within streaming is an industry
that's different from like working at a
law firm for example
and this is what it looks like
on top of that there are these things
that i call amplifiers so interlaced
through all of this that amplifies the
burnout at each step of the
step of the way
is social media so this is like a real
problem because at every step of the way
social media and comparison are always
happening because at each step of the
way there's like some kind of comparison
that makes each of those three stages
worse when you're growing there's
someone else who's growing more than you
are
when the sand in the hourglass is
running out when you're in phase two you
see other streamers that are like you
that begin to die
right and then you're like oh my god
like this person is fading away into
nothingness and that's gonna be me next
or other people are blowing up while you
are just growing right so you see other
people who are eclipsing you there's
another wow streamer now now there's a
lost art streamer oh my god can you
imagine how many mmo streamers started
[ __ ] their pants when asmond gold
stopped streaming wow just think about
that for a second right i'm not blaming
anyone in any of that just to be clear
right because people should stream what
they want to stream
but like
like asmin gold is coming for us right
like he's coming for our followers
that's the way that streamers reacted to
him like changing games
and so that like even at the second
phase it's like oh my god what happens
if another streamer pops up or like and
they grow bigger than i do or like a big
streamer decides to get into that game
am i going to grow am i not going to
grow
then you end up in the third phase where
like you're looking around you've got a
bunch of followers a lot of people are
like liking your tweets you start
attracting hate farmers by the way so
that's the other thing that happens when
you get really big right is there's a
group of people that are hate farmers
and so these are people that that have
youtube channels or like twitch reacts
or whatever and the purpose of their
content the food for their content is
like reacting or trashing you as a very
large streamer so there's like a bunch
of stuff that goes into this in terms of
social media and comparison that just
amplifies all three layers of burnout
and if if you want to know like you know
why are people like this you know i
totally get what people are saying like
everyone's depressed and streaming
you know like the wall street journal
it's like even penetrated into like
mainstream media and the wall street
journal is writing an article about it
and why is that it's because there's a
particular thing going on
right like this is something that's a
common shared experience that most
content creators have
and so we try to help people with this
stuff i think that this is like part of
the problem is that you know you can go
see a psychiatrist or therapist and i
know a lot of streamers that have really
benefited from seeking mental health
treatment which i think is fantastic and
at the same time like no one is going to
teach you this in medical school right
like they're not going to teach you the
content creator burnout life cycle
because this is a new thing there have
not been studies published on this so
the best that we've got is like
noobs like us like actually working with
these people for like a year or two and
this is kind of what we conclude
so thankfully twitch is like pretty
supportive about this kind of thing so
you know
this stream sponsored by twitch not
really but i mean like they're good i
think they recognize that this is a
problem and like
they've been pretty supportive so we're
grateful for that
um and those of you i mean i guess you
guys know but we have a content creator
program and like this is a this is legit
this is a real thing
i know it's kind of also different
because we don't i mean usually we talk
about y'all as the audience right so
like our target audience here at healthy
gamer is like the chat right it's not
the streamer and we sometimes interview
big streamers and stuff like we do that
but that also is not about it's not so
much about streaming it's more about you
know like showing
y'all that these are like regular normal
human beings who have regular normal
human struggles
so
you know i think it's
anyway
so if you guys want to understand like i
completely agree that streamer mental
health is is tough
and we've seen a lot of burnout and i
think part of the problems is that there
are new and specific things
that relate to stream or mental health
that like can be acted on in a specific
and targeted way and a lot of what we
try to do is teach people like okay how
do you learn and i think um ludwig even
talked about this so how do you
diversify your sense of identity and
value outside of streaming so this is a
core thing when your identity is tied up
in your view count
right like how many people are watching
then as the view count goes up and down
your identity goes up and down with it
and the problem is because of the way
that metrics work so in the history of
humanity you've never been able to
quantify
the value of a human being as easily as
you can today so sure like maybe a
hundred years ago you had people who
could quantify wealth in some way you
had kings and you had nobles and stuff
like that sure
but you also had like regular people who
were like living on a street and it's
like how much is each human being worth
it's like kind of weird because it
wasn't quantified right you've got the
more popular people you've got the less
popular people and like sure there's
clearly a hierarchy but it's all kind of
fuzzy
there's not like a number to it and now
what we've managed to do with the
internet is we've like quantified our
value as human beings people are
concerned about the social credit score
in china like
the social credit score happened here in
the west way earlier than it happened in
china right it had to do with things
like this is how you get like these
choosing beggars where like hey i like
to get a cupcake and then the people
like okay cool like it's two dollars for
a cupcake and they're like i have ins i
have a hundred thousand instagram
followers you should give it to me for
free this is my value as a human being
and it is worth more than two dollars so
give me cup cupcake please thank you
very much
we have quantified value of human beings
right we've already done it it's it's
there
and so now that we've like kind of done
this it's like messing up our society
it's kind of bizarre
we've done it already
and so now you've got streamers that are
investing their sense of identity
with a particular metric right that's
what i'm worth as a human being and if i
behave in a particular way so many more
people like me i get more likes i get
more followers i get more subs fantastic
and this happens in other parts of our
life too so this doesn't it's not just
streamer specific so this is a root
issue in yoga called ahankara a hamkar
or the ego or the sense of identity as a
human being when you get
when you identify
and become one with some attribute of
your life
your value as a human being goes up and
down depending on that metric
right so my me personally i'm invested
in one thing
which is gme and as gme goes up i feel
like i'm on top of the world and as gme
goes down i feel like i've wasted all my
time and my energy and my life savings
into something that will blow up in my
face
right
and so like that's what we do as human
beings for students right it's grades oh
i didn't get good grades therefore i'm
not a good human being
sometimes in in some devastating
situations it's also the way that we're
treated by people people like
narcissistic parents like oh my
narcissistic parent is mad at me
therefore i am a bad human being so we
peg our identity and our values human
beings to all kinds of metrics
and what happens when you're a content
creator and streamer is that it becomes
so easy
for your brain to quantify your value by
pegging it to these external things
so if you want to become healthier if
you want to become freer and ironically
make better content because that's i
think what we've observed as well
because remember it's the thing that
caused you to explode in the first place
that authenticity that lack of
expectation that like i'm gonna show up
on the internet and just like have a
good time that causes people to respond
the best anyway
so like it's it's all i mean there's
like so much that's changing
and so you have to de-identify from
you know certain external metrics to
find inner peace whether you're a
student whether you have a narcissistic
parent whether you're a streamer